---
layout: manual
title: Layout Versus Schematic (LVS)
prevpage: manual-16
nextpage: manual-18
---

Layout Versus Schematic comparison compares the layout and schematic
cell views. It can also be used to compare one schematic to another (or
layout to layout). LVS is used to ensure that your layout is identical
to your schematic. LVS works by generating a new net list for each
circuit. It then compares the two net lists. If any discrepancies are
found, LVS will display them. Before LVS can be run on layouts, the
layout must be extracted.

In your layout window of the inverter left click **Editing: Verify -\>
LVS**

![](/images/manual/LVS.gif)

The LVS form should appear. Type the cell upon which you are working in
the *Cell Name* (i.e. inverter). Set the left column of view to
schematic, and the right to extracted. Ensure that **Rewiring** in LVS
Options is *NOT* selected. Type *divaLVS.rul* in the Rules File.

Left click **LVS: Run**

A small dialog box may appear, if you have made any recent changes. If
so, left click the **Save** option. LVS usually takes a while, so relax
for a bit. When LVS is finally complete, a window will appear telling
you that it either succeeded or failed.

Left click **OK**.

If it succeeded, it only means that LVS has succeeded. It doesn\'t mean
your schematic and extracted views matched. For this, you got to look at
the Output.

Left click **LVS: Output**

The result output window should appear. Look through the log file. Check
that the net-lists match, and that the comparison program completed
successfully. If the net-list don\'t match, then you need to go back and
fix your layout. After fixing the layout, run LVS again. Keep doing this
until the net-lists match. When debugging your problem you can use
**Monitor** in your LVS window. You will need to open both the schematic
and the layout of the inverter. You can then double click on the error
messages and the errors will be highlighted in both schematic and
layout. This way you can identify your errors faster.
